# ITCSS

#### The SpaceFramework uses the ITCSS architecture for its directory structure. In this article we explain what ITCSS is and how it can work to organize your projects even better. 

If you are familiar using ITCSS, then it is very easy to integrate the SpaceFramework in your own project. You can read more about integration [here](getting-started/integration). 

If you are not using ITCSS, then you might consider the **ITCSS architecture**. In this article we explain how ITCSS works and how it helps you organize your CSS code.

## What is ITCSS?
ITCSS is basically nothing more then an idealogic folder structure to organize your **SCSS**, **LESS** or **CSS** code. It is simular to SMACSS but way more envolved. If you already using naming conventions such as **OOCSS** and **BEM**, then you gonna love our ITCSS structure. 

The thought behind its folder structure is however way bigger then just a folder structure. It focuses on maintaining clear code which is easily expandable and writing as less code as possible. 

ITCSS knows the following main folders:

1. [Settings](#_1-settings)
2. [Tools](#_2-tools)
3. [Generic](#_3-generic)
4. [Elements](#_4-elements)
5. [Objects (**OOCSS**)](#_5-objects)
6. [Components (**BEM**)](#_6-components)
7. [Utilities](#_7-utilities)


## Folder structure

Lets break it down:


### 1. Settings
The **Settings** folder is meant for all **global variables** and **global settings**. It may not contain any function / mixins or classes. Once generated by SCSS it should not output any code. (Unless you are using CSS variables)

You could add files such as:
`_colors.scss`, `_font-weights.scss` and `_font-sizes.scss`


### 2. Tools
In **Tools** you can put all SCSS **Mixins** and **Functions**.

You can add files such as: 
`_generate-font-classes.scss`

Once generated by SCSS it should not output any code. (Unless you used CSS variables in the [1. Settings](#_1-settings) folder)

 
### 3. Generic
```scss
@include normalize();
@include space-unit-variables();
@include font-preset-variables();
```


 
### 4. Elements
```scss
@import 'typography';
```

 
### 5. Objects
```scss
@include layout-classes();
@include font-size-classes();
@include font-preset-classes();
@include self-classes();
```
 
### 6. Components
This folder is for specific UI components and where the majority of your work takes place. Consider the BEM methodology for structuring your components. 

Since the SpaceFramework does not deliver components this is an empty folder within the SpaceFramework.
 
### 7. Utilities
The SpaceFramework comes with 3 utilities classes: 
- trim
- implode
- shift

We have included them in `7.utilities/__utilities.scss`. 
```scss
@include trim-classes();
@include implode-classes();
@include shift-classes();
```
If you used our init file (`init-spaceframework.scss`) to include the SpaceFramework then you can use the mixins above to include the utility classes on your preferred location. If you use ITCSS then you should include them in your utility folder. 


